---
layout: post
tagline: "JJB"
---
{% include JB/setup %}

Hello,

Today is the final day of my internship and so I have decided to leave
my thoughts of working on Jenkins Job Builder (JJB) and with the
community.

When I first started working on JJB, I had very basic programming
knowledge and with limited to none knowledge on Git, GitHub, and Gerrit.
My goal for the internship was to expand my knowledge and gain some work
experience in an open source environment. Over the last 3 months of
working on the JJB project, I have acquired essential skills such as
using Git and Gerrit, ways to problem solve, and improve my programming
skills.

I have also gained valuable experience on how the open source community
work together. Because of the nature of having to review patches on
Gerrit before merging any patches into the main branch, I was able to
improve and write better code from reviews given by experts and more
experienced programmers. Their perspectives and thoughts when problems
arises were valuable as more often than not, I would have not thought of
or considered. I like JJBâ€™s documentation since it is often consistent,
and concise. This allows me to rely on the documentation while I am
working.The open source community has been friendly and helpful whenever
I needed help. They are always willing to help wherever they can.

I think however, that patches are slow to be reviewed on. There are many
patches that are weeks old. Few patches are months, and even a year old.

Working on JJB, I have attained more than my goals and expectations as I
have become a core reviewer of JJB. I plan on continuing to contribute
wherever I can after this internship is over.

Thank you JJB team, OpenStack, OpenDayLight, and the rest of the
community for the internship. It has been a great experience.

Attached below is a link to my JJB project proposal document with a
complete table of plugins that I have worked on and weekly work log
found at the bottom of the document [1].

[1]
https://docs.google.com/document/d/17AHluxqiBFcsTCkpyekDOFSTahX50pXFmQgjlK-PoEQ/edit
